Hypertension is a chronic disease that is known to be a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Since cardiovascular disease is one of the leading causes of death in the last two decades, early detection of hypertension, improvement of lifestyle habits and careful control can slow the progression of the disease and reduce its subsequent consequences. Recent advances in artificial intelligence and innovation in machine learning methods have greatly contributed to the development of efficient predicting and decision-making tools. One of these tools is recommender systems, which have been considered as a solution to health problems in recent years. These tools can help medical professionals make more effective choices in the treatment process in the early stages of various diseases. In addition, clinical decisions are usually made based on physicians' experiences. This may lead to undesirable biases, human errors and high medical costs and affect the quality of services provided to patients. In this regard, in recent years, efforts have been made to design recommender systems to better control and treat hypertension.
The purpose of this study is to provide a model based recommender system to reduce the risk of hypertension. Data from 230 patients were used for this study. After collecting data through interviews and file reading, the pre-processing step was performed. Then patients were clustered and recommendations related to each cluster were obtained in three different ways. By matching the characteristics of the new patient, the cluster to which he belongs was determined and the recommendations of the new patient were predicted based on the recommendations of the relevant cluster. The results of this study show that the proposed recommender model has an acceptable performance in comparison with the opinions of experts in this field.
